Now we added a lot of cool things to our little bit more complex component here,
now let's wrap this all up by changing the styling a little bit, by making sure that we also can close
the modal when we click the backdrop
and by also animating them a little bit when it comes in and goes away.
Now definitely feel free to do some of these things on your own,
pause the video, try it on your own at this point,
otherwise we'll do it together of course.
So were you successful?
Let's give this a try,
let's start with a click listener on the backdrop which closes the modal.
Now this shouldn't be too hard, right?
In our modal component, the backdrop in the end is this element with the ID backdrop,
so all we have to do is select it
and then add that event listener.
So here, I will select my backdrop with this shadow root query selector and then #backdrop
because again we have that ID backdrop on that div and now I just need to add an event listener and I'll
do that here next to my button event listeners, there I'll access my backdrop and add an event listener,
add a click listener of course and in the end here, I want to do the same which I do when I click the
cancel button because in the end, we cancel the modal when we click the backdrop.
So I will use this cancel method here as an event handler,
bind this, so I will do exactly the same as I do for the cancel button. And with this change, it should already
work.
If I now go back, open this, click somewhere on the backdrop and it closes this, nice.
Now I want to work a little bit on the styling when I decrease the amount of whitespace we have up there,
maybe add a line below our header,
so for that, I'll go into my styling here.
Now for the line, I'll add a border bottom here on my header which wraps my, well header content in the
end and that should be 1px solid and #CCC,
so this is a light gray,
It's the same light gray I have as a border top on the actions and to reduce the amount of whitespace,
for slotted h1 content
which brings extra margins,
I'll set the margins of that h1 tag to 0 and now with that, if I reload, this looks much nicer.
So this is now the look I want to have,
last but not least, let's add a tiny animation, a CSS transition to be precise and for that, the modal
itself should be animated when it comes in.
So to do that, I want to have it slide in from the top and go from opacity 0 to opacity 1 over let's
say 300 milliseconds. So I'll actually reduce the top distance here to 10vh instead of 15 which
I had before,
opacity already is set to 0 initially and then when we show it, which of course is the case here,
I want to animate that. Now
for that, I will actually add an extra rule here
for the opened state on my modal, where I also set top to 15vh.
I can't do this in this combined rule because the backdrop should not be moved down,
so here, this is basically the end state, opacity 1, pointer events all and then for the modal
also in addition, top set to 15vh,
so it is pushed down further than it is initially when it is invisible.
And now, so that we can see that change,
I'll add the transition property to the modal and there, I'll transition everything so all properties
should be watched and animated over .3 seconds with an ease-out timing function and if CSS
transitions are something you're not familiar with, attached you find some helpful resources and my
CSS, The Complete Guide here on Udemy
also of course is a great resource to learn more about that.
So now with that, if I reload this page, you'll see it slide in and also automatically slide out,
the same is the case when I click these buttons.
So now we have this nice little animation here for our modal
and with that, we built a pretty nice component which you can of course always enhance more,
you can style these buttons differently, whatever you want but I'm very happy with that and I think we
learned a lot of cool things in this module.